you go to the supermarket with a list of
items in your hand
however as soon as you enter the store
you realize that at least one or two
things from the list have slipped your
mind have you ever gone into your
kitchen with no idea at all of why you
went there
these situations might be irritating but
you should stop blaming yourself for
being forgetful according to scientists
forgetting things may be a sign of
exceptional intelligence the journal
neuron conducted a study that proved how
forgetting things is a natural brain
process and this very process can make
you way smarter the paradox lies in the
fact that a perfect memory doesn't
always indicate high intelligence yeah
you have to accept this if you remember
a lot of stuff it doesn't mean you're
brighter than anyone else
the brain resembles a computer in more
ways than you might think it has a sort
of hard drive aka the hippocampus where
your memories are stored this part of
the brain filters out unnecessary
details by doing this it optimizes your
memory storage as a result you remember
things that are really important and
forget insignificant details naturally
your brain can't make its own decisions
about what you should forget and what
should stay in your mind it keeps your
newest memories but at the same time
sometimes has to rewrite existing ones
when too many memories accumulate in
your brain they start to conflict with
one another this creates chaos which
makes it hard for you to make the right
decision that's why people who are
smarter than the rest tend to forget
unimportant details their brain just
does an excellent job of getting rid of
the clutter and holding on to important
memories
[Music]
as you can see being forgetful is more
of an advantage than a weakness but this
isn't the only sign of exceptional
intelligence there are several other
traits indicating you're smarter than
other people you love dark humor
according to a study published in
cognitive processing in 2017 people who
prefer dark humor are more intelligent
than those who don't get it on top of
that such individuals also have higher
scores when taking emotional stability
tests you need to be smart to understand
twisted dark humor in addition your
brain has to do some work to get such
jokes you have larger pupils if you have
visibly larger pupils and the people
around you even when it's not dark you
have higher intelligence at least that's
what a 2016 study in cognitive states
according to this research larger pupils
give away not only your exceptional
intelligence but also how high the
capacity of your working memory is you
probably know that your pupils dilate in
response to an absence of light
interestingly the researchers learn that
the same reaction can be the result of
your brains activities the faster your
mind is working the larger your pupils
are so find a mirror and check your
pupils remember to write about your
observations in the comments below the
video you trust people in 2014 PLoS ONE
published a curious study it analyzed
information received from the general
social survey this survey asked people
about how trusting they are surprisingly
it turned out that people who were
extraordinarily bright trusted others
more eagerly the reason might be their
ability to read people's characters very
accurately on top of that trusting
people were happier and physically
healthier than suspicious ones
you are patient with your finances
people with a high IQ have more patience
and financial issues meaning that they
don't mind waiting longer for their
funds to grow on top of that smart
people are more eager to take financial
risks but unlike average individuals
they don't demand immediate rewards in
return for this risk you have great
perceptional skills if you have a high
IQ your brain can't help but work faster
at some fundamental level that's why
people who have strong perceptual skills
are likely to be way smarter than others
moreover they are good at blocking out
useless background information which
helps them to make more objective
judgments you don't think you are
exceptionally smart there exists an
interesting phenomena called the
dunning-kruger effect it occurs when
people can't adequately evaluate their
skills and abilities interestingly
people who are not particularly skilful
tend to think too highly of their level
of competence at the same time highly
intelligent people usually underestimate
their skills this paradox has a logical
explanation
the smarter a person is the better they
understand that there is still a lot of
space for improvement as a result they
are rarely satisfied with their level of
knowledge or abilities you consider
yourself lazy
if you believe that you are lazier than
the average person don't worry this may
be a sign of your superior intelligence
lazy people spend more time thinking as
for overly active individuals they often
need to do a lot of stuff and always be
busy to escape their thoughts however
there is an opposing point of view
it states that highly intelligent people
are always busy with dozens of different
projects at the same time these
activities are important either for
their personal or professional
development therefore being extremely
productive is a sign of having highly
developed intelligence which theory do
you support share your arguments in the
comment section below you know how to
listen to people and ask the right
questions people with a high IQ don't
try to become the center of a
conversation they don't like performing
lengthy and tedious monologues about
themselves either they prefer to listen
to their conversation partners smart
people don't feel uncomfortable during
moments of silence they use this time to
think about received information instead
of wasting their energy on making small
talk at the same time if a highly
intelligent person asks a question it
always hits the spot what's more these
questions can help others come to the
right decisions seemingly on their own
so if your friends complement your
listening skills you're most likely a
smart one you're self-critical
if you tend to be self-critical and
willing to accept criticism from others
you're more intelligent than the average
person
your ability to admit your mistakes and
even more importantly your desire to
correct them can easily give your
intellect away on the other hand those
who are brighter than the rest usually
don't take into consideration when other
people think about their ideas they do
what they consider right and don't let
other people's opinions cloud their
judgment you learned to read earlier
than your peers a 2012 study conducted
in the UK tested about 2000 pairs of
identical twins according to the results
of the survey the sibling who had
started to read earlier have higher
scores on cognitive ability tests thus
the researchers suppose that learning to
read at an early age improves the
reasoning abilities of a person moreover
it appears that people who love reading
for fun are more intelligent than those
who use books to search for new
information also avid readers have
better focus and memory as well as more
developed communication skills you're
good at arguing according to dr. Travis
Bradbury author of the book emotional
intelligence 2.0 if you know how to
argue correctly he or much smarter than
the average person the main condition is
the ability to prove your point
convincingly
and articulately you should also be able
to argue not only from your point of
view but from anyone elses as well if
you can do this congratulations you're
the smart one here you're a warrior new
studies on anxiety keep proving that
people who tend to worry a lot might be
more intelligent than those who are
typically calm and relaxed in a 2015
study on intelligence and emotional
disorders 126 undergraduate students had
to specify how often they felt anxious
after that the students had to take a
series of tests it turned out that
people who worried a lot had higher
scores on verbal intelligence tests do
you have any features of exceptional
intellect write about them in the
comment section below
remember to hit the like button share
this video with your friends and move to
the bright side of life by pushing the
subscription button
you